# quantum-simulations
A repository containing code to simulate quantum algorithms. 

The file 'qcausal.py' is a library of methods for quantum computing, covering the state vector, density matrix and process matrix fromalisms. Methods allow a user to make simple quantum circuits, to deal with impure quantum states, to obtain measurement outcomes, to conduct Quantum Fourier Transforms, to generate causally non-separable environments, etc. 

The file 'phase_estimation.py' simulates the quantum phase estimation protocol, an important protocol used in Shor's algorithm for factoring large numbers. Phase estimation and related algorithms rooted in the Quantum Fourier Transform are responsible for many of the 'exponential' speedups seen in quantum computing. The problems tackled by these class of algorithms are usually specific instances of the Hidden Subgroup Problem.

The CHSH game, as simulated by 'CHSH_game.py', is a well known non-signalling game where two friends can be asked several possible questions and must coordinate their answers without knowing what has been asked of each other. In a classical world it can be won 0.75 of the time. When the friends are given entangled particles though, a bound of about 0.85 is possible. This 0.85 value is famously known as Tsirelson's bound. The statistical correlations possible through this game, and other related non-signalling games, are described as 'non-local' and are one of the most exciting resources available when dealing with quantum computing.

The OCB game, as simulated by 'OCB_game.py', deals with a signalling game between two friends. The details of the game can be seen in the original paper 'Quantum correlations with no causal order' by Oreshkov, Costa and Brukner. In a classical setting, the game can be won only 0.75 of the time. If you allow for the possibility of exotic superpositions of causal orders though, the game can be won 0.85 of the time. Though bearing similarities to the CHSH game, the OCB game is more about statistical correlations that seem to defy a classical intuition of time. As such they have been dubbed 'non-causal', though such correlations have yet to be shown in a lab.
